<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" id="qmjya7b4b545cfc15ecec427f36801d9" style="min-width: 100%; width: 1px; text-size-adjust: 100%; font-size: 100%; transform-origin: left top;">
  <head style="display: none;"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link href="../css/alw_9781319272463.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
    <link href="../css/common/lm_ui.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
    <script src="../frost_widgets_data/glossary.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <script src="../javascript/jquery.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <script src="../javascript/lm_popup.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <script src="../javascript/lm_frost_listner_min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=5" />
    <title>About the Authors</title>
  <style type="text/css" media="print">body > * { display: none !important; height: 0px !important; width: 0px !important; overflow: hidden; }body:before { content: "To print, please use the print page range feature within the application."; display: block !important;}</style></head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter" class="frontmatter" id="rbfyd68ac168f5147b18ca1e1486ec8d" data-lo-framework-id="" style="overflow: auto;">
    <section epub:type="afterword" role="doc-afterword" class="afterword" id="AU_sec_1_1">
      <header id="dcchbcf09c0119d1fc76bb64546c65d1">
        <h1 epub:type="title" class="title" id="eoemb8f4018e83dfb766662c7429353e"><span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="pagexxxii" title="xxxii" aria-label="xxxii"></span>About the Authors</h1>
      </header>
      <p class="noindent" id="xjtbb62355100825944e6c03647e246a"><strong class="important" id="goyj61a3d02594a259f004ed7a40c199">Layth C. Alwan</strong> is an Associate Professor of Supply Chain, Operations Management, and Business Statistics, Sheldon B. Lubar School of Business, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. He received an AB in mathematics, SB in statistics, MBA, and PhD in business statistics/operations management, all from the University of Chicago, and an MS in computer science from DePaul University. Professor Alwan is an author of many research articles related to operations management, business forecasting, and statistical process control. He has consulted for many leading companies on statistical issues related to operations, forecasting, and quality applications. On the teaching front, he focuses on engaging and motivating business students on how statistical thinking and data analysis methods have practical importance in business. He is the recipient of several teaching awards, including Business School Teacher of the Year (three times) and Executive MBA Outstanding Teacher of the Year.</p>
      <p class="noindent" id="_gjdgxs"><strong class="important" id="cgzg708b1d5448bfb5eeb7c689f4c4f8">Bruce A. Craig</strong> is Professor of Statistics and Director of the Statistical Consulting Service at Purdue University. He received his BS in mathematics and economics from Washington University in St. Louis and his PhD in statistics from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is an elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of the American Statistical Association, where he served as chair of its section on Statistical Consulting in 2009. He is also an active member of the International Biometrics Society and was elected by the voting membership to the Eastern North American Region’s Regional Committee between 2003 and 2006. Professor Craig has served on the editorial board of several statistical journals and has been a member of numerous data and safety monitoring boards, including Purdue’s institutional review board. He is an author or coauthor of over 120 peer-reviewed journal articles. His research interests focus on the development of novel statistical methodology to address research questions, primarily in the life sciences. Areas of current interest are diagnostic testing and assessment, measurement error models, and animal abundance estimation.</p>
      <p class="noindent" id="rabpba831f4235b654128619adba9a2d"><strong class="important" id="sozpa40bedf22943a652a4dbfb71e9ba">George P. McCabe</strong> is a Professor of Statistics at Purdue University. In 1966 he received a BS in mathematics from Providence College and in 1970 a PhD in mathematical statistics from Columbia University. His entire professional career has been spent at Purdue with sabbaticals at Princeton; the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO) in Melbourne (Australia); the University of Berne (Switzerland); the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in Boulder, Colorado; and the National University of Ireland in Galway. Professor McCabe is an elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and of the American Statistical Association; he was the 1998 Chair of its section on Statistical Consulting. In 2008–2010, he served on the Institute of Medicine Committee on Nutrition Standards for the National School Lunch and Breakfast Programs. He has served on the editorial boards of several statistics journals. <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="pagexxxiii" title="xxxiii" aria-label="xxxiii"></span>He has consulted with many major corporations and has testified as an expert witness on the use of statistics in several cases. Professor McCabe’s research interests have focused on applications of statistics. Much of his recent work has focused on problems in nutrition including nutrient requirements, calcium metabolism, and bone health. He is author or coauthor of over 200 publications in many different journals.</p>
    </section>
  <style type="text/css" style="display: none;">.vsthighlight { cursor: pointer; } .disabledHighlight { background: #ECECEC !important; border-color: #B3B3B3 !important; cursor: default !important; } .disabledHighlight.vst-shared-highlight { background: transparent !important; }</style><style type="text/css" style="display: none;">.tts-highlight { background: yellow !important; }</style><div id="myModal" class="modal" style="display: none;"><div class="modal-content"><button tabindex="0" title="Close (Esc)" class="close"></button><div class="modal-body"></div></div></div><div tabindex="0" id="dummyDiv" style="display: none;"></div><div id="gallery" class="pswp" role="dialog" aria-labelledby="figcaption" style="display: none;"><div class="pswp__bg"></div><div class="pswp__scroll-wrap"><div class="pswp__container"><div class="pswp__item"></div><div class="pswp__item"></div><div class="pswp__item"></div></div><div class="pswp__ui pswp__ui--hidden"><div class="pswp__top-bar"><div class="pswp__counter"></div><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--close" title="Close (Esc)"></button><div class="pswp__preloader"><div class="pswp__preloader__icn"><div class="pswp__preloader__cut"><div class="pswp__preloader__donut"></div></div></div></div></div><!-- <div class="pswp__loading-indicator"><div class="pswp__loading-indicator__line"></div></div> --><div class="pswp__share-modal pswp__share-modal--hidden pswp__single-tap"><div class="pswp__share-tooltip"></div></div><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--arrow--left" title="Previous (arrow left)"></button><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--arrow--right" title="Next (arrow right)"></button><div class="pswp__caption"><div id="figcaption" class="pswp__caption__center"></div><div class="lm_controls_lightbox"><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--fs" title="Toggle fullscreen"></button><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--zoom lm__in" title="Zoom in"></button><button disabled="true" class="pswp__button pswp__button--zoom lm__out" title="Zoom out"></button></div></div></div></div></div></body>
</html>