<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" id="nvyqa13f3d6ef0205b2ae7d75a6caf13" style="min-width: 100%; width: 1px; text-size-adjust: 100%; font-size: 100%; transform-origin: left top;">
  <head style="display: none;"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <link href="../css/alw_9781319272463.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
    <link href="../css/common/lm_ui.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />
    <script src="../frost_widgets_data/glossary.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <script src="../javascript/jquery.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <script src="../javascript/lm_popup.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <script src="../javascript/lm_frost_listner_min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=5" />
    <title>To Students What Is Statistics</title>
  <style type="text/css" media="print">body > * { display: none !important; height: 0px !important; width: 0px !important; overflow: hidden; }body:before { content: "To print, please use the print page range feature within the application."; display: block !important;}</style></head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter" class="frontmatter" id="sqyz2368fa5abefa4e8c8f677f3e6f15" data-lo-framework-id="" style="overflow: auto;">
    <section epub:type="preface" role="doc-preface" class="preface" id="stap_1">
      <header id="kmwvfab94a0603a1522f4ffe5c8c8079">
        <h1 epub:type="title" class="title" id="zyun715fab276ac9591845be50e01f8a"><span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="pagexxv" title="xxv" aria-label="xxv"></span>To Students: What Is Statistics?</h1>
      </header>
      <p class="noindent" id="ymau30f5b1c5c59ddca615541d6a68d2">Statistics is the science of collecting, organizing, and interpreting numerical facts, which we call <i class="semantic-i" id="ftbq455669159cb0e1aa81aa17b1ed81">data.</i> We are bombarded by data in our everyday lives. The news mentions movie box-office sales, the latest poll of the president’s popularity, and the average high temperature for today’s date. Advertisements claim that data show the superiority of the advertiser’s product. All sides in public debates about economics, education, and social policy argue from data. A knowledge of statistics helps separate sense from nonsense in this flood of data.</p>
      <p class="indent" id="tcouf425a143e135b378b6a2d45d83ba">The study and collection of data are also important in the work of many professions, so training in the science of statistics is valuable preparation for a variety of careers. Each month, for example, government statistical offices release the latest numerical information on unemployment and inflation. Economists and financial advisors, as well as policymakers in government and business, study these data to make informed decisions. The sports industry uses data to help make decisions regarding player performance, team rosters, and fan experience. Doctors must understand the origin and trustworthiness of the data that appear in medical journals. Politicians rely on data from polls of public opinion. Business decisions are based on market research data that reveal consumer tastes and preferences. Engineers gather data on the quality and reliability of manufactured products. Most areas of academic study make use of numbers, and therefore also make use of the methods of statistics. This means it is extremely likely that your undergraduate research projects will involve, at some level, the use of statistics.</p>
      <section class="subsect1" id="BK_sec_1_1">
        <header id="htgg11165ee000c2e501999834a5ca1f">
          <h2 class="level1" id="vcmu1dc4f128e084c3ea5479f34c0480">Learning from Data</h2>
        </header>
        <p class="noindent" id="kszqd67b5b621ed7ce6fc9c238aa7770"><i class="semantic-i" id="hgop32161c84d1a188637dcbcbed3430">The goal of statistics is to learn from data</i>. To learn, we often perform calculations or make graphs based on a set of numbers. But to learn from data, we must do more than calculate and plot, because data are not just numbers; they are numbers that have some context that helps us understand them.</p>
        <p class="indent" id="yqusc09f643991e376455930eadde154">When you do statistical problems, even straightforward textbook problems, don't just graph or calculate. Think about the context and state your conclusions in the specific setting of the problem. As you are learning how to do statistical calculations and graphs, remember that the goal of statistics is not calculation for its own sake, but gaining understanding from numbers. The calculations and graphs can be automated by a calculator or software, but you must supply the understanding. This book presents only the most common specific procedures for statistical analysis. A thorough grasp of the principles of statistics will enable you to quickly learn more advanced methods as needed. On the other hand, a fancy computer analysis carried out without attention to basic principles will often produce elaborate nonsense. As you read, seek to understand the principles as well as the necessary details of methods and recipes.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="subsect1" id="BK_sec_1_2">
        <header id="obpdbd388eadd90617ea1db73b888e74">
          <h2 class="level1" id="juhac0eac2c2ef80b0e4deb11a256ddf">The Rise of Statistics</h2>
        </header>
        <p class="noindent" id="mqfd0f87c7a9d4fff3cd48e638f2958b">Historically, the ideas and methods of statistics developed gradually as society grew interested in collecting and using data for a variety of applications. The earliest origins of statistics lie in the desire of rulers to count the number <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="pagexxvi" title="xxvi" aria-label="xxvi"></span>of inhabitants or measure the value of taxable land in their domains. As the physical sciences developed in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the importance of careful measurements of weights, distances, and other physical quantities grew. Astronomers and surveyors striving for exactness had to deal with variation in their measurements. Many measurements should be better than a single measurement, even though they vary among themselves. How can we best combine many varying observations? Statistical methods that are still important were invented in order to analyze scientific measurements.</p>
        <p class="indent" id="clxbbc512d2bc75a24b5a5a0ee6ec018">By the nineteenth century, the agricultural, life, and behavioral sciences also began to rely on data to answer fundamental questions. How are the heights of parents and children related? Does a new variety of wheat produce higher yields than the old, and under what conditions of rainfall and fertilizer? Can a person’s mental ability and behavior be measured just as we measure height and reaction time? Effective methods for dealing with such questions developed slowly and with much debate.</p>
        <p class="indent" id="yzrob7e4c4db743a82c4c344f3ccd649">As methods for producing and understanding data grew in number and sophistication, the new discipline of statistics took shape in the twentieth century. Ideas and techniques that originated in the collection of government data, in the study of astronomical or biological measurements, and in the attempt to understand heredity or intelligence came together to form a unified “science of data.” That science of data—statistics—is the topic of this text.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="subsect1" id="BK_sec_1_3">
        <header id="xzmdf6be9e88fd0e4f369fa66a977016">
          <h2 class="level1" id="aqmzf50550a22a9167047e2d3009bc7a">Business Analytics</h2>
        </header>
        <p class="noindent" id="xszd2e0a43baca56157a22bb4a88d8c1">The business landscape has become increasingly dominated with the terms of “business analytics,” “predictive analytics,” “data science,” and “big data.” These terms refer to the skills, technologies, and practices in the exploration of business performance data. Companies (for-profit and nonprofit) are increasingly making use of data and statistical analysis to discover meaningful patterns to drive decision making in all functional areas, including accounting, finance, human resources, marketing, and operations. The demand for business managers with statistical and analytic skills has been growing rapidly and is projected to continue for many years to come. Our goal with this text is to provide you with a solid foundation on a variety of statistical methods and the way to think critically about data. These skills will serve you well in this data-driven business world.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="subsect1" id="BK_sec_1_4">
        <header id="ipoof8d9e9fc8da57c3241e71444b4cc">
          <h2 class="level1" id="dpgf1563bbf505c994bae201b20bc29f">The Organization of this Book</h2>
        </header>
        <p class="noindent" id="mmfueea5080af6592a209d914aabbe1b">The first three chapters of this book concern data analysis and data production. The first two chapters deal with statistical methods for organizing and describing data. These chapters progress from simpler to more complex data. <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch01_01.xhtml#ch01_sec_1" id="BK-ext1" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapter 1</a> examines data on a single variable; and <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch02_01.xhtml#ch02_sec_1" id="BK-ext2" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapter 2</a> is devoted to relationships among two or more variables. You will learn both how to examine data produced by others and how to organize and summarize your own data. These summaries will be first graphical, then numerical, and then, when appropriate, in the form of a mathematical model that gives a compact description of the overall pattern of the data. <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch03_01.xhtml#ch03_sec_1" id="BK-ext3" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapter 3</a> outlines arrangements (called designs) for producing data that answer specific questions. The principles presented in this chapter will help you to design proper samples and experiments for your research projects, and to evaluate other such investigations in your field of study.</p>
        <p class="indent" id="kgtx2759b7a40d734e81e2904220ce2d"><a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch04_01.xhtml#ch04_sec_1" id="BK-ext4" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapters 4</a> to <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch07_01.xhtml#ch07_sec_1" id="BK-ext5" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">7</a> introduce statistical inference—formal methods for drawing conclusions from properly produced data. Statistical inference uses the language of probability to describe how reliable its conclusions are, so some basic facts about probability are needed to understand inference. Probability <span epub:type="pagebreak" role="doc-pagebreak" id="pagexxvii" title="xxvii" aria-label="xxvii"></span>is the subject of <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch04_01.xhtml#ch04_sec_1" id="BK-ext6" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapters 4</a>, <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch05_01.xhtml#ch05_sec_1" id="BK-ext7" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">5</a>, and <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch06_01.xhtml#ch06_sec_1" id="BK-ext8" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">6</a>. <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch07_01.xhtml#ch07_sec_1" id="BK-ext9" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapter 7</a>, perhaps the most important chapter in the text, introduces the reasoning of statistical inference. Effective inference is based on good procedures for producing data (<a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch03_01.xhtml#ch03_sec_1" id="BK-ext10" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapter 3</a>), careful examination of the data (<a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch01_01.xhtml#ch01_sec_1" id="BK-ext11" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapters 1</a> and <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch02_01.xhtml#ch02_sec_1" id="BK-ext12" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">2</a>), and an understanding of the nature of statistical inference, as discussed in <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch06_01.xhtml#ch06_sec_1" id="BK-ext13" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapter 6</a>.</p>
        <p class="indent" id="yqnocea569e85d27442bcf182cd618f1"><a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch08_01.xhtml#ch08_sec_1" id="BK-ext14" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapters 8</a> to <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch13_01.xhtml#ch13_sec_1" id="BK-ext15" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">13</a> describe some of the most common specific methods of inference. <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch08_01.xhtml#ch08_sec_1" id="BK-ext16" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapters 8</a> and <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch09_01.xhtml#ch09_sec_1" id="BK-ext17" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">9</a> describe methods for drawing conclusions about means from one, two, and three or more samples. <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch10_01.xhtml#ch10_sec_1" id="BK-ext18" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapters 10</a> and <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch11_01.xhtml#ch11_sec_1" id="BK-ext18a" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">11</a> present similar material for proportions and categorical data. <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch12_01.xhtml#ch12_sec_1" id="BK-ext19" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">Chapters 12</a> and <a class="crossref" href="alw_9781319272463_ch13_01.xhtml#ch13_sec_1" id="BK-ext20" style="overflow-wrap: break-word;">13</a> present statistical inference methods for predicting a single outcome variable from one or more explanatory variables.</p>
        <p class="indent" id="ubydca7175fc221c5cec458c33f96798">The remaining five chapters introduce somewhat more advanced methods of inference, dealing with time series, statistics for quality, two-way analysis of variance, nonparametric tests, and logistic regression.</p>
      </section>
      <section class="subsect1" id="BK_sec_1_5">
        <header id="kuvj2241ec2832abaac8c7ecc894bd60">
          <h2 class="level1" id="ijoifbcc7e6e4d4f523a5940a0dc3904">What Lies Ahead</h2>
        </header>
        <p class="noindent" id="nkmkdcecdeecc4b253a9c17728a50e88"><i class="semantic-i" id="ouyt5008f524e58ce0d01deb44329a6d">The Practice of Statistics for Business and Economics</i> presents data from a variety of different areas. Many exercises ask you to express the understanding gained from your study of the data. In practice, you would know much more about the background of the data and about the questions the data hope to answer. Nonetheless, it is important to form the habit of asking “What do the data tell me?” rather than just concentrating on making graphs and doing calculations or blindly accepting what someone else tells you they mean.</p>
        <p class="indent" id="djsi064a65328d8ab6fd41a52f88ead2">When doing exercises, make sure to use the help provided by technology to make graphs and to perform calculations. This allows you more time to think critically about the conclusions. There are many kinds of statistical software, from spreadsheets to large programs for advanced users of statistics.</p>
        <p class="indent" id="nxsd187bca77c3fcffc129b5e762b4fe">Because graphing and calculating are automated in statistical practice, the most important assets you can gain from the study of statistics are an understanding of the big ideas and the beginnings of good judgment in working with data. Ideas and judgment can't (at least yet) be automated. They guide you in telling the computer what to do and in interpreting its output. This book tries to explain the most important ideas of statistics, not just teach methods. Some examples of big ideas that you will meet are “always plot your data,” “randomized comparative experiments,” and “statistical significance.”</p>
        <p class="indent" id="leqd7b63022a397ac7f96228f71bec39">You learn statistics by doing statistical problems. “Practice, practice, practice.” Be prepared to work problems. The basic principle of learning is persistence. Being organized and persistent is more helpful in reading this book than knowing lots of math. The main ideas of statistics, like the main ideas of any important subject, took a long time to discover and take some time to master. The gain will be worth the pain.</p>
      </section>
    </section>
  <style type="text/css" style="display: none;">.vsthighlight { cursor: pointer; } .disabledHighlight { background: #ECECEC !important; border-color: #B3B3B3 !important; cursor: default !important; } .disabledHighlight.vst-shared-highlight { background: transparent !important; }</style><style type="text/css" style="display: none;">.tts-highlight { background: yellow !important; }</style><div id="myModal" class="modal" style="display: none;"><div class="modal-content"><button tabindex="0" title="Close (Esc)" class="close"></button><div class="modal-body"></div></div></div><div tabindex="0" id="dummyDiv" style="display: none;"></div><div id="gallery" class="pswp" role="dialog" aria-labelledby="figcaption" style="display: none;"><div class="pswp__bg"></div><div class="pswp__scroll-wrap"><div class="pswp__container"><div class="pswp__item"></div><div class="pswp__item"></div><div class="pswp__item"></div></div><div class="pswp__ui pswp__ui--hidden"><div class="pswp__top-bar"><div class="pswp__counter"></div><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--close" title="Close (Esc)"></button><div class="pswp__preloader"><div class="pswp__preloader__icn"><div class="pswp__preloader__cut"><div class="pswp__preloader__donut"></div></div></div></div></div><!-- <div class="pswp__loading-indicator"><div class="pswp__loading-indicator__line"></div></div> --><div class="pswp__share-modal pswp__share-modal--hidden pswp__single-tap"><div class="pswp__share-tooltip"></div></div><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--arrow--left" title="Previous (arrow left)"></button><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--arrow--right" title="Next (arrow right)"></button><div class="pswp__caption"><div id="figcaption" class="pswp__caption__center"></div><div class="lm_controls_lightbox"><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--fs" title="Toggle fullscreen"></button><button class="pswp__button pswp__button--zoom lm__in" title="Zoom in"></button><button disabled="true" class="pswp__button pswp__button--zoom lm__out" title="Zoom out"></button></div></div></div></div></div></body>
</html>